---
title: "Ch01 How the internet works"
category:
 - Programming
tag:
 - Python
 - Web Scraping
---

## 1. Networking

A modern packet-switching network is usually described using the **Open Systems Interconnection (OSI)** model.

1. **Physical layer**
   Specifies how information is **physically** transmitted with electricity over the Ethernet wire.
2. **Data link layer**
   Specifies how information is transmitted between two nodes in a local network.
3. **Network layer**
   Allows packets from your computer to be forwarded by a router and reach devices beyond their immediate network.
   This layer involves the **Internet Protocol (IP)**.
4. **Transport layer**
   Concerns itself with connecting a specific application running on a computer to a specific application running on another computer, rather than just connecting the computers themselves.
   - TCP: **Transmission Control Protocol**
   - UDP: **User Datagram Protocol**
   - Port: The operating system assigns each application or service to a specific port, where it sends and receives data.
5. **Session layer**
   Responsible for opening and closing a session between two applications.
6. **Presentation layer**
   Transforms incoming data from character strings into a format that the application can understand and use.
7. **Application layer**
   Interprets the data encoded by the presentation layer and uses it appropriately for the application.

## 2. HTML

HTML (Hypertext Markup Languages) files end in `.html` or `.html`.

## 3. CSS

Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) define the appearance of HTML elements on a web page.

## 4. JavaScript

JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a text format that contains human-readable data.

```json
{
	"A": 1,
    "B": 2,
    "C": 3
}
```

